# SC Shortname

Pointer

# SC Text

All functionality can be operated with pointer inputs. If functionality requires text entry, a mechanism is available for users to enter the text using pointer inputs (for instance, through an on-screen keyboard).

Note 1: in most cases, the on-screen keyboard will already be provided by the operating system or user agent.

# Suggestion for Priority Level (A/AA/AAA)

Level A

# Related Glossary additions or changes

Pointer inputs: input devices that can target a specific coordinate (or set of coordinates) on a screen, such as a mouse, pen, or touch contact. (modified slightly from https://w3c.github.io/pointerevents/#glossary)

# What Principle and Guideline the SC falls within.

Principle 2, *new* Guideline "Pointer Accessible"

# Description

WCAG 2.0 currently takes it for granted that content will be designed/built to work with pointer inputs (generally, mouse). This is not always a given, and for completeness should be added. Examples are:

* Pop-up windows that can only be closed / dismissed via the keyboard
* where a physical keyboard is not present but  text input is required. Applications may not automatically trigger the display of an on-screen virtual keyboard
* where important functionality may only be displayed when an element is focused via the keyboard 

[editorial note: this needs cautious wording to ensure we're not requiring authors to build their own on-screen keyboards etc, probably through use of "a mechanism is available" language which would then cover situations where the OS/UA themselves provide on-screen keyboards (see discussion https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-mobile-a11y-tf/2016Jul/0014.html)]

# Benefits

Ensuring that all functionality can be used via pointer input (mouse, stylus, touch) helps users of devices without a physical keyboard. When applications support keyboard commands for specific functions, this success criterion ensures that there are equivalent means to activate these functions via pointer input.
Some assistive technologies also mimic pointer/mouse events directly, and this SC will ensure that content works for users of these AT.

[TODO: example of a user trying to interact with an app that is keyboard-specific, but they are using a touchscreen and can't arbitrarily raise an on-screen keyboard]

# Testability

Check that all functions designed for keyboard input (e.g. functions detecting specific key presses) can also be activated via pointer.

# Techniques

* Use device independent input events (such as `onclick`, `onfocus` or `onblur`)
* could be a variant of "SCR35: Making actions keyboard accessible by using the onclick event of anchors and buttons", generalised to "SCR35: Making actions both keyboard and pointer accessible by using the onclick event of anchors and buttons" 
